All right.
The last thing I want to say here about these capacitors here is concerning the potential energy stored
in capacitors.
Again to get charges on these plates it doesn't happen by itself.
You need to plug in a battery.
And it's the battery that does the work.
OK.
That's where the energy comes from.
All right.
It comes from the power supply.
So let me just write this down so battery does work.
And as a result of something doing work we store what kind of energy we would store electrical potential
energy in this capacitor.
So let me just right capacitor
stores electrical potential energy
all right.
So that is a very very important concept.
So the next thing we want to do is how do we calculate the electrical potential energy.
Again first we're going to start with our famous capacitor equation the famous capacitor equation is
simply that the charge is equal to the capacitance multiplied by the voltage between the plates.
So again one plate has positive charge.
The other plate has negative charge.
There is a voltage between those plates.
This is number one that's always true.
So how much potential energy with there have.
Would you have let me write down the first equation going gonna write this equation three different
ways.
There's three variables involved.
There's the charge there is capacitance and there is voltage.
The equation for potential energy involves two of those variables.
One way of writing it is like this one half the charge multiplied by the voltage.
If you remember the units here the units for charge are columns the units for voltage are joules per
column if you multiply those things at the end of the day we're going to get a quantity here that is
measured in Joules.
So this is the first equation for energy.
How can I.
It's written in terms of the charge in the voltage.
What if instead if I wanted to write this equation without the charge q in that equation what I could
do is use equation 1 and eliminate the charge.
So let me go ahead and do that.
So instead of having the charged Q I'm going to replace Q by the capacitance multiplied by the voltage
I could do that and I still have the voltage from the equation for potential energy.
So at the end you could see that this one here reduces to one half CV squared.
Same equation just different terms involved so somebody gives you the capacitance and you know the voltage
automatically you could quickly calculate it.
You don't have to go through the charge.
So that's the second way of calculating the same quantity.
The third way now which often comes up is sometimes
you may just know the charge in the capacitance.
Then usually you'd have to go through the voltage but again I can use my start with the first equation
for potential energy.
And let me eliminate voltage and I'm going to eliminate the voltage using equation 1.
So again I'm going to have the charge q from the definition and instead of me writing voltage over here
for that term I am going to write charge divided by the capacitance.
So the third formula for calculating the exact same thing is Q squared divided by C Okay.
So we really have three different equations to calculate the energy generated is one two and three they
all mean the same thing.
They're all the same.
They will give you a number of joules if you're charges and cooldowns and your voltage is in volts.
Okay.
So that is really really important.